We added our first reducer and thus far, NgRx is not doing anything for us but we're getting there.
The next step is that we also take care about the actions that we want to have or about the one action
which we support right now,
adding an ingredient. We want to be able to dispatch this and to dispatch this and to there also reliably
dispatch it in the same way by having the right identifier where we rule out typos and by adding the
right payload ingredient that can be added here,
we should also standardize this action creation process or how such an action looks like
because at the moment, I'm just checking for this identifier here
but if I now would dispatch this action from anywhere in my code, I would have to make sure that I type
this same identifier and as you might imagine, if you're in a hurry, if your application is bigger, it's
easy to forget a character and then you have a bug that's super hard to spot, your app does not work
correctly and you waste hours looking for that stupid typo. To rule that out, NgRx also kind
of at least pushes us into a direction where we have a clear pattern about creating and providing our
actions as well.
Now for that, I'll create a new file next to the shopping list reducer and that is my
shopping-list.actions.ts file.
Now since the actions and the reducer kind of belong together and belong both to the NgRx setup,
I'll add a new subfolder here in the shopping list folder and I'll name it store because it's all
related to the @ngrx/store.
So let's move the reducer and the actions file into that store folder now and now let's work on the shopping
list actions file.
Now in that file, I first of all want to export my identifiers or my single identifier I have thus far
in a way that we can simply import it and we don't have to type it manually, to rule out typos.
So in the shopping list actions file, I'll therefore export a constant which I also name add ingredient,
though that name is totally up to you
and then I assign a value of add ingredient.
Now this is a convention which I recommend following, you use a constant whose name is the same name
as the one of your identifier, which in turn should be descriptive about what this action does and you
then simply store your string identifier in that constant and by exporting it here in the actions file,
we can import it into our files, like in our shopping list reducer file where we need that action and
therefore since we never have to type it again and we just import it and the IDE will yell at us if
we mess up the import, it won't yell at us if we mess up a string,
therefore for all these reasons we then have a secure way where we rule out typos in the action identifiers.
So now, I will import add ingredient from the shopping list actions file here and instead of using the
string like this down there, I just use add ingredient like this
and this now refers to that string.
Now that's the first step but of course this step doesn't ensure that we for example have the right
payload.
The next step therefore is that we export another thing that describes our action and our action,
if we go back to reducer, is of course not that string.
Keep in mind the action is an object which needs to have a type property, so the action actually is an object,
not a string,
it is of type action and action is imported from @ngrx/store. So it probably doesn't hurt if we grab
that action import and we import it here in the shopping-list.actions.ts
file as well
and that what we export here should be our action and that should be a class therefore, since the action
is an object and objects can be created based on classes, that should have a descriptive name and I'll name
it
add ingredient, now not all uppercase because class names should be pascal case,
so using this convention but it still is of course belonging to that action,
I think that's pretty clear by the name.
Now it's a class and that class needs to implement the action interface
we're importing from @ngrx/store. Action as I mentioned earlier already is an interface, not itself an
object and this interface being implemented into add ingredient
now forces us to structure the add ingredient class in a certain way. To be precise,
we need to have a type property in the add ingredient class and that type is the identifier of this action.
Now this will always be an add ingredient action,
so type here should simply be add ingredient, so our string from up there and now an extra annotation
which we should add here is readonly,
that is a TypeScript feature which indicates to TypeScript that this must never be changed from outside and
if we ever try so from anywhere in our code, we'll get an error
and this simply enhances type safety and ensures that we don't mess up with our pattern.
Now as I mentioned, this action needs more than just a type though,
it also needs the ingredient that should be added and therefore, we can add more. We can add a second
property, the payload and that should be of type ingredient
and for that, you should also add an import to the ingredient model, like this.
Now with that, we finished our action definition.
Now it still might be hard to see all these pieces come together but we're almost there.
Let's now use this action in the shopping list reducer,
let's extract the payload and let's then finally work on registering the application store and also
on selecting our state and dispatching actions.